Documentation revamp (#4871)
spotify/scio: site/src/main/paradox/Builtin.md

# Built-in Functionality

> Scio is a thin wrapper on top of Beam offering idiomatic Scala style API. Check out the [Beam Programming Guide](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/) first for a detailed explanation of the Beam programming model and concepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scio is a thin wrapper on top of Beam offering idiomatic Scala APIs. Check out the [Beam Programming Guide](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/) first for a detailed explanation of the Beam programming model and concepts.
```

## Basics

- @scaladoc[`ScioContext`](com.spotify.scio.ScioContext) wraps Beam's @javadoc[`Pipeline`](org.apache.beam.sdk.Pipeline)
- @scaladoc[`SCollection`](com.spotify.scio.values.SCollection) wraps Beam's @javadoc[`PCollection`](org.apache.beam.sdk.values.PCollection)
- @scaladoc[`ScioResult`](com.spotify.scio.ScioResult) wraps Beam's @javadoc[`PipelineResult`](org.apache.beam.sdk.PipelineResult)

See dedicated sections on:
- @ref[IO](io/index.md)
- @ref[Joins](Joins.md)
- @ref[Side Inputs](SideInputs.md)

## Core functionality

> A `ScioContext` represents the pipeline and is the start point for performing reads and the means by which the pipeline is executed.
> Run a pipeline by calling `run` and await completion by chaining `waitUntilDone`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `ScioContext` represents the pipeline and is the starting point for performing reads and the means by which the pipeline is executed.
Execute a Pipeline by invoking `ScioContext::run`, and await completion by chaining `waitUntilDone`:
```

```scala mdoc:compile-only
import com.spotify.scio._
val sc: ScioContext = ???
sc.run().waitUntilDone()
```

`SCollection` is the representation of the data in a pipeline at a particular point in the execution graph preceding or following a transform.

> `SCollection`s have many of the methods you would expect on a standard scala collection: `map`, `filter`, `flatten`, `flatMap`, `reduce`, `collect`, `fold`, and `take`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SCollection`s have many of the methods you would expect on a standard Scala collection: `map`, `filter`, `flatten`, `flatMap`, `reduce`, `collect`, `fold`, and `take`.
```

Any `SCollection` of 2-tuples is considered a _keyed_ `SCollection` and the various @ref[joins](Joins.md) and `*ByKey` variants of other methods become available.
The first item in the tuple is considered the key and the second item the value.
The `keyBy` method creates a keyed `SCollection`, where the user-defined function extracts the key from the exising values:

> ```scala mdoc:compile-only

Reviewer: TIL about `compile-only`!

val (lessThanFive, greaterThanFive): (SCollection[Int], SCollection[Int]) = elements.partition(_ > 5)
```

Elements can be printed to the console for inspection at any point of the graph by using `debug`:
```scala mdoc:compile-only
import com.spotify.scio.values.SCollection

val elements: SCollection[String] = ???
elements.debug(prefix = "myLabel: ")
```

## ContextAndArgs

Scio's @scaladoc[ContextAndArgs](com.spotify.scio.ContextAndArgs) provides a convenient way to both parse command-line options and acquire a `ScioContext`:

```scala mdoc:compile-only
import com.spotify.scio._

val cmdlineArgs: Array[String] = ???
val (sc, args) = ContextAndArgs(cmdlineArgs)
```

If you need custom pipeline options, subclass Beam's @javadoc[PipelineOptions](org.apache.beam.sdk.options.PipelineOptions) and use `ContextAndArgs.typed`:

```scala mdoc:compile-only
import com.spotify.scio._
import org.apache.beam.sdk.options.PipelineOptions

trait Arguments extends PipelineOptions {
  def getMyArg: String
  def setMyArg(input: String): Unit
}

val cmdlineArgs: Array[String] = ???
val (sc, args) = ContextAndArgs.typed[Arguments](cmdlineArgs)
val myArg: String = args.getMyArg
```

## Aggregations

> Scio provides a suite of built-in aggregations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scio provides a suite of built-in aggregations:
```

> `aggregate`

Reviewer: should this be a bullet-pointed list?

There are also keyed variants of each of these: [`batchByKey`](com.spotify.scio.values.PairSCollectionFunctions#batchByKey(batchSize:Long,maxBufferingDuration:org.joda.time.Duration):com.spotify.scio.values.SCollection[(K,Iterable[V])]), [`batchByteSizedByKey`](com.spotify.scio.values.PairSCollectionFunctions#batchByteSizedByKey(batchByteSize:Long,maxBufferingDuration:org.joda.time.Duration):com.spotify.scio.values.SCollection[(K,Iterable[V])]), and [`batchWeightedByKey`](com.spotify.scio.values.PairSCollectionFunctions#batchWeightedByKey(weight:Long,cost:V=>Long,maxBufferingDuration:org.joda.time.Duration):com.spotify.scio.values.SCollection[(K,Iterable[V])]).

```scala
import com.spotify.scio._
import com.spotify.scio.values.SCollection

val elements: SCollection[String] = ???
val batchedElements: SCollection[Iterable[String]] = elements.batch(10)
```

## Misc

Some elements of an `SCollection` can be randomly sampled using `sample`:
```scala mdoc:compile-only
import com.spotify.scio.values.SCollection

val elements: SCollection[String] = ???
val result: SCollection[String] = elements.sample(withReplacement = true, fraction = 0.01)
```

> `intersection`

Reviewer: Same as above - should this be a list?
